[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: So,
where does Tmpls.js come from,
you notice it's in the web/js directory,
where does that thing come from?
Well, I actually have another utility
here, called build templates,
it's a script that is in
the main root of your file.
And if you look at build templates,
let me to zoom out,
it's a little easier
to see more at a time.
What build templates does,
I can scroll down here,
essential what it does is you spin it up,
you run this program and
it will process through all the templates
that are in the templates directory.
These are grips templates.
If you were using a different templating
engine, if you didn't like grips then
you'd just be using a gulp or a grunt
process for whatever engine you want.
Again, not to overload people,
we're not using grunt and gulp here.
I'm not saying that those aren't
good tools, but that's yet
more machinery that I have to teach you.
So, I'm showing you how to do it
without even invoking any other tool.
This is just a simple script that I wrote
to go through the files in templates
directory and run them through the grips
templating engine and compile them.
So, that's what it does it.
It loops through all the templates in
that file, processes each one of them.
This is the command in the grips
templating engine to compile one of those
files and
it compiles it from the HTML template into
runnable JavaScript that can then be
rendered either in Node or in the server.
So, essentially this build
templates JavaScript file
produces the Tmpls.js file.
It starts with,
is it similar to the ejs template engine?
Similar in that they are both
template engines, yes.
Similar in style or
syntax, definitely not.
Okay, so
there is a base wrapper that I have and
right off
the bat this is going to illustrate how I
share code between Node and the browser.
I use the UMD style of module wrapper.
Now I will fully admit and
agree to you that those five lines of code
being boilerplate on the top of each
of my files is not at all ideal.
I don't like that crap up there, but
the other take away is that I
don't even have to worry about it.
I can literally just hide it,
which is what I often do.
I don't have these hidden, because I want
to teach, but I just hide those things and
not worry about those sorts of details.
Which is usually what I do when I'm
really trying to think about, so
I can use like code folding in Sublime.
And then I don't have to
worry about that UMD header.
But this is essentially replacing
my need for browserify.
Because this file as it is,
can be run in any of those environments.
It can run in Node, it can run in the
browser, it can run inside of require in
the browser and
it doesn't need to be transformed.
So, my choice instead of using
browserify is to use the UMD wrapper.
Some people like that, some people don't,
I'm not passing judgment
that browserify is bad.
I actually think it's a great tool but
my choice here was I don't wanna invoke
some other tool that I have to teach you.
So, another way of doing it plain
barebones is to put in the UMD wrapper.
And I don't write this every
time I just duplicate my file.
[LAUGH] I duplicated another module and
I don't even think about
the boilerplate stuff.
The contents of my module
is what starts here and
you'll notice that my
module is in strict mode.
And I have this init function and
I have a little placeholder here,
a comments placeholder.
That's where the compiled
templates get put into.
So, this is a wrapper and
I compile all the templates with grips and
I stuff all of that executable
code right in here.
And that is the Tmpls.js file that can
work identically in both the browser and
the server.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay.
>> Kyle Simpson: The other thing
that build templates does,
in addition to building the initial
template bundle, is it sets up a watch.
And this watch is duplicating the same
sort of feature that you've probably used
in something like grunt or gulp.
I'm setting up a watch to listen for
templates being changed in
my templates directory.
Every time I save a file,
this watch will automatically kick in,
it'll see that file had been created or
changed.
It'll kick in and
re-invoke my build template scripts or
it'll rebuild my template bundle
every time I make a change.
I don't have to go back to
the command line and do it,
it just automatically watches it.
So, essentially when I start this up,
I start up build templates and
then I don't think about it anymore and
it automatically builds.
Now another thing on that topic is,
>> Kyle Simpson: I said,
I had watch going on in my Node server
process, so I'm back in server.js.
And I said I had Node going on
in my server watch process.
Where's that going?
Here, I have another watch.createMonitor.
And I'm watching for
the Tmpls.js file to change.
This is an interesting trick I
haven't really seen a lot of other
frameworks doing.
I'm not saying that nobody else is
doing it but essentially what I want
is to not have to restart my server
if my templates have changed.
So, I'm hot reloading my templates
bundle into my server instance
every time it changes.
In other words,
when I change a template file,
one watch process rebuilds the template
bundle and another watch process
re-hot loads it directly into my
server instance without restarting.
So, I can just do a refresh of my page
immediately after changing my template and
bam the new view is available.
So, let me illustrate that process
just to kind of point that out and
that will segue us into talking
about these grips templates.
So, I just have a basic one, this index,
here's my content, my basic content.
So, if I wanted to make a change,
I don't have that build
template process running yet.
So, before I even save the file,
let me start up that build
templates watch that's gonna go on.
So, now that's in the background,
the build templates watcher
is in the background.
Actually we run it, you have to run it
with the watch thing to make it do that.
So, now it's watching for
that change to the template.
So, when I save this file,
>> Kyle Simpson: They can come
back to the command line and you'll see
that it is now rebuilt my template bundle.
My server was automatically redoing or
watching for those things.
So, if I look at my server log file,
>> Kyle Simpson: You notice
that it reloaded my templates.
So, my server has reloaded
the templates into its process.
Which means without even restarting
the server, if I come back over here,
now it's updated and
it can serve it up from an initial page.
And we can also hot load that
JavaScript into the browser if we want.
I don't have that process set up but
it's easy to do the same thing in your
browser and hot load your new templates.
>> Kyle Simpson: A couple of
quick things about grips,
just if you were at all interested
in learning how grips works.
I have,
>> Kyle Simpson: A little
online playground for the template engine.
So, these four boxes,
this is the template that you write and
then this shows you what
it gets compiled into.
And by default that's the code that's
compiled with all of the debug stuff in
it, so that it gives you nice
friendly error messages.
And that's what you'd use in dev, but if
you wanted to switch it to being smaller
and being production without debug stuff,
switching the mode, this shows you how
much shorter the code is when I
don't have all the debug stuff in.
So, you can kind of get a sense and if
you wanted to look at the code that I was
producing, it's pretty highly compressed
stuff but if you at all cared about it.
Most of the stuff in there
is things like this which
are producing information that
an error message can use.
That's a distinction point between
grips and other templating engines
is that there's actually quite a few
features in here that are built for
much better error messaging than you've
seen with other template engines.
It's much, much richer, stack trace based,
sorts of error messaging from your
templates, not only from, if you have
an error compiling your template but
much more so if you have a runtime
error with your template.
There aren't a lot of template engines
that do runtime error checking in any
graceful way.
But that's been built into
grips from the beginning.
All right, so you can change
something about your template.
You can change something about
the data that's being put in.
So, if I change this to world too and
I come out on focus from that,
it doesn't need to be recompiled but
it will re-render and
shows you now that it says world too.
If I change my template up here,
I'd like to add in an extra couple
of exclamation marks, it will actually
recompile the template first.
And then it will rerender it and
show you the info down there.
So, there's a little playground if you
wanted it all to learn about the syntax.
There's a bunch of documentation and
then a bunch of different preset
examples that show you doing different
things with the template engine and
how to produce this stuff.
So, if you wanna learn grips,
that might help a little bit.
But we're not really doing a lot of
complicated stuff with grips here.
All I'm doing is I'm defining, the define
tag is how you define a partial.
To include a partial from another
location, you just say partial and
give it the ID of the partial.
So, I have this stuff template down here.
And of course, all I need to do
then is add more stuff into any
part of my template, click Save,
let those watches run for a moment.
And now if I do a refresh,
we see the exclamation show up.
>> Kyle Simpson: Grips is definitely
a partials based templating engine.
So, we define things in
terms of template partials.
Also you notice that files
can extend other files.
So, I have a master template
that I've set up for
the page which has like
my doctype stuff in it.
And then I'm calling out to
a partial content which allows me
to do essentially a basic but
powerful form of template inheritance.
So, the index template inherits the master
and it overwrites certain partials.
So, I can have lots of different
pages that inherit from master.
I can have something that inherited
from index and override partials.
So, it supports those sorts of features.
Just gonna see if I had any examples of,
yeah, so here's how you drop in a value,
instead of dropping in a partial.
You're just gonna insert it.
By the way,
grips does have a shorthand form of
all of the,
>> Kyle Simpson: Syntax, so
the long form is like it
uses words like define.
But there's a shorthand form of all the
syntax if you prefer to write less code.
And the short form, uses a single operator
in place of these different words.
So, if you have a really
long complex template and
you find yourself writing
a bunch of words,
you might like the short form that
you can use, either form is valid.
Okay,
>> Kyle Simpson: Main takeaway here is,
it really would not matter at all
what template engine you like to use.
I don't care if you wanna use mustache or
you wanna use dust or whatever.
Whatever template engine suits you,
the same concept that I'm
presenting here can be done very easily
with any of those templating engines.
You just simply have a template
that you change a file,
you have a watch that rebuilds it.
You load that into some file
that you can use in both places.
And then in my server,
if I wanna use the template engine,
it's exactly the same as if
I'm using it in the browser.
So, let's look at this loadPage route.
You'll notice that I'm
calling out to my view
sort of like a controller, if you like.
I'm calling out to my view and I'm
calling this function called getPageHTML.
That just simply invokes grips and it
loads the appropriate section of HTML and
then it sends it back out.
So, this View.getPageHTML
wouldn't have to change at all
if you wanted to swap out
a different templating engine.
You just go into that getPageHTML and
specify a different templating engine.